In this video.
We're going to learn more about these config files that we're going to write to create actual pods,
services and deployments.
So let's take a look at a couple of notes on these config files.
Okay.
So first off, these config files that we're going to write are going to tell Kubernetes about the different
deployments, pods and services that we want to create inside of our cluster.
By the way, collectively, we refer to deployments, pods, services and other similar things that
we create in Kubernetes as objects.
So in other words, we are creating config files to create and configure objects.
Is config files are going to be written entirely in YAML syntax if you're not familiar with yaml.
Don't sweat it.
It's really easy syntax to pick up, especially if you're already familiar with JSON.
It's essentially JSON with just less curly braces and whatnot.
Now, the next couple of notes I'm going to write out here are going to seem a little bit strange for
right now, but as soon as we start writing our first config file, I think they will make a little
bit more sense.
So I'm just going to say them right now because they are so important to understand.
We're not going to understand it just yet, but you'll see it in just a moment.
So first off, whenever we write a config file, we're always going to store these files with our projects.
So in other words, we're going to commit these to get and make sure that we store them in some kind
of source control.
The reason for that is that these config files that we write are really documentation of what our Kubernetes
cluster is doing.
The config files can tell another engineer who starts to look at your code about the different deployments,
services and pods that you have created.
And it's really the best documentation.
You're going to have to tell other engineers what your cluster is doing.
With that in mind, it is possible to create these object things.
So again, an object is deployment pod service without using config files and I highly recommend that
you do not do this.
You should not create objects directly at the command line by writing in commands to create an object.
We're always going to write out these config files because they are going to be, again, a source of
documentation to tell you in other people in the future exactly what is going on inside your cluster.
And the reason I say this so prominently is because once you start to read the Kubernetes documentation,
they're going to tell you to run commands at your terminal to directly create objects without using
any config file.
I highly recommend you only follow the Kubernetes documentation for testing purposes and learning purposes.
Do not create resources or objects directly at the terminal in a production environment.
There are a couple of exclusions to that rule and we'll talk about what those exclusions are later on.
The other thing is that blog posts, in addition, will frequently tell you to run commands to create
objects as opposed to using these config files.
And if you see a blog post that tells you to do that, just close the blog post because honestly the
person is probably not giving you the best advice.
Yeah, you can use the command, but who knows what else in that blog post are cutting corners on as
well.
Now I don't really mean to smash on anyone who is going with that approach inside of a blog post, but
it's just my personal opinion.
Use a config file at all times.
So now at this point in time, you're probably saying, okay, like whatever.
Stephen, get to it.
What is in a config file?
All right, I'm with you.
I understand.
So one more pause and we're going to write out our first config file in the next video.